.TH "epylog.conf" "5" "1.0" "Konstantin Ryabitsev" "Applications/System"

.SH NAME
\fBepylog.conf\fR \- epylog configuration

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBepylog\fR config file is a simple plaintext file in win.ini style
format.

.SH "Location"
Epylog will look in /etc/epylog/epylog.conf by default, but you can
override that by passing \-c switch on the command line.

.SH "[main]"
.TP
.B cfgdir
This is where epylog should look for other configuration information,
most notably, \fBmodules.d\fR directory. See \fIepylog-modules(5)\fR
for more info.
.TP
.B tmpdir
Where to create temporary directories and put temporary files. Note
that log files can grow VERY big and epylog might create several
copies of them for processing purposes. Make sure there is no danger
of filling up that partition. A good place on a designated loghost is
/var/tmp, since that is usually a separate partition dedicated
entirely for logs.
.TP
.B vardir
Where epylog should save its state data, namely the offsets.xml
file. The sanest place for this is /var/lib/epylog.
.TP
.B multimatch
By default, if a line is matched against a module, no other modules
will be tried. This helps speed things up tremendously. However, you
may have several modules that process the same lines (although this is
not a very good setup). In that case you may set this to "yes". The
default value is "no".
.TP
.B threads
How many processing threads to start. 50 is a good default value, but
you may set it to less or more, depending on your system.

.SH "[report]"
.TP
.B title 
What should be the title of the report. For mailed reports, this is
the subject of the message. For the ones published on the web, this is
the title of the page (as in <title></title>).
.TP
.B template
Which html template should be used for the final report. See the
source of the default template for the format used.
.TP
.B include_unparsed
Can be either "yes" or "no". If "no" is specified, strings that didn't
match any of the modules will not be appended to the report. Not very
wise! A good setting is "yes".
.TP
.B publishers
Lists the publishers to use. The value is the name of the section
where to look for the publisher configuration. E.g.:
.br
.B publishers = nfspub
.br
will look for a section called "[nfspub]" for publisher
initialization. The name of the publisher has nothing to do with the
method it uses for publishing. The fact that the default are named
[file] and [mail] is only a matter of convenience. List multiple
values separated by a comma.

.SH "Mail Publisher"
.TP
.B method
Method must be set to "mail" for this publisher to be considered a
mail publisher.
.TP
.B smtpserv
Can be either a hostname of an SMTP server to use, or the location of
a sendmail binary. If the value starts with a "/" it will be
considered a path. E.g. valid entries:
.br
.B smtpserv = mail.example.com
.br
.B smtpserv = /usr/sbin/sendmail -t
.TP
.B mailto
The list of email addresses where to mail the report. Separate
multiple entries by a comma. If ommitted, "root@localhost" will be
used.
.TP
.B format
Can be one of the following: \fBhtml\fR, \fBplain\fR, or \fBboth\fR. If
you use a mail client that doesn't support html mail, then you better
use "plain" or "both", though you will miss out on visual cueing that
epylog uses to notify of important events.
.TP
.B lynx
This is only useful if you use format other than "html". Epylog will
use a lynx-compliant tool to transform HTML into plain text. The
following browsers are known to work: lynx, elinks, w3m.
.TP
.B include_rawlogs
Whether to include the gzipped raw logs with the message. If set to
"yes", it will attach the file with all processed logs with the
message. If you use a file publisher in addition to the mail
publisher, this may be a tad too paranoid.
.TP
.B rawlogs_limit
If the size of rawlogs.gz is more than this setting (in kilobytes),
then raw logs will not be attached. Useful if you have a 50Mb log and
check your mail over a slow uplink.
.TP
.B gpg_encrypt
Logs routinely contain sensitive information, so you may want to
encrypt the email report to ensure that nobody can read it other than
designated administrators. Set to "yes" to enable gpg-encryption of the
mail report. You will need to install mygpgme (installed by default on
all yum-managed systems).
.TP
.B gpg_keyring
This is the gpg keyring containing the public keys of recipients. You can
generate it using the following command:
.br
> gpg --no-default-keyring --keyring=./epylog.gpg --search KEYID
.br
This will query the keyserver and display all matching keys, which you can
then import into epylog's pubring. You can repeat this operation multiple
times if you need to encrypt to several recipients.
.TP
.B gpg_recipients
List of PGP key id's to use when encrypting the report. The keys must be in
the keyring specified in gpg_keyring. If this option is omitted, epylog will
encrypt to all keys found in the keyring.

.SH "File Publisher"
.TP
.B method
Method must be set to "file" for this config to work as a file
publisher.
.TP
.B path
Where to place the directories with reports. A sensible location would
be in /var/www/html/epylog. Note that the reports may contain
sensitive information, so make sure you place a .htaccess in that
directory and require a password, or limit by host.
.TP
.B dirmask, filemask
These are the masks to be used for the created directories and
files. For format values look at strftime documentation here:
http://www.python.org/doc/current/lib/module-time.html
.TP
.B save_rawlogs
Whether to save the raw logs in a file in the same directory as the report. 
The default is off, since you can easily look in the original log sources.
.TP
.B expire_in
A digit specifying the number of days after which the old directories
should be removed. Default is 7.
.TP
.B notify
Optionally send notifications to these email addresses when new
reports become available. Comment out if no notification is
desired. This is definitely redundant if you also use the mail
publisher.
.TP
.B smtpserv
Use this smtp server when sending notifications. Can be either a
hostname or a path to sendmail. Defaults to "/usr/sbin/sendmail -t".
.TP
.B pubroot
When generating a notification message, use this as publication root
to make a link. E.g.:
.br
.B pubroot = http://www.example.com/epylog
.br
will make a link: http://www.example.com/epylog/dirname/filename.html

.SH "COMMENTS"
Lines starting with "#" will be considered commented out.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Konstantin Ryabitsev <icon@linux.duke.edu>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
epylog(3), epylog(8), epylog-modules(5)

